----
INFO
----

Meet date:  2022-11-15 (ad-hoc, anyone welcome)
Meet link:  https://meet.sigsum.org/sigsum
Meet topic: https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/merge_requests/13
Meet goal:  identify if there are any significant blockers or unwanted side-effects

Please read the above MR thread / proposal in advance.

(Here: rgdd, nisse, ln5, fox)

-----
NOTES
-----

Main changes:

1. Claims for witness slightly changed (timestamp)
2. Witness gets contacted ("log pushes sth")

We all seem to agree that (1) is a strict improvement.

(2) has trade-offs.  Would mean a separate protocol for witnessing that is
usable for both "public" and "private" log.

Is it only logs that contact witnesses?  Does it have to be only logs?  Does it
have to be with (forced) low latency, or could it be an infinite latency
protocol?

(Witness is more than a signing oracle, needs to update state.)

"How hard is it to write a server vs how hard is it to write a client"

- Volume (num requests)
- Format (what needs to be parsed and by whom)

WG endpoint
- Can limit access per key

Onion service
- Possible to not say which basement you're in (protect geo-info)
- Anonymity aspect of it not really interesting for a useful witness

If witness keys are "more online" than before, would it make sense to have a key
hierarchy for witnesses with online/offline keys?  Probably not that useful
because client policies are hard (if not impossible) to change.  In other words,
a compromised "leaf key" would be difficult to revoke, security in large depends
on m/n witnesses.

How do we cope with higher risk of witness key being owned?
- Increase m / n, but the impact of the change in ratio also depends on
  diversity between witnesses

---------
Take away
---------

Key question: how much worse is it to put your signing machinery "online", as
opposed to semi-online which is "I have a client" vs "I have a server".  To
answer this question more confidently we need to move forward and define the
protocol.

An observation: it is likely helpful to consider "glasklar" a "pilot private
witness".  Our admin team would be able to operate a witness with the current
sigsum design for a small number of logs.  Is that still reasonable if we update
the witnessing protocol?

(If yes, probably representative of other smaller orgs that run some services as
well.)
