rgdd notes when looking at tta's current AT stuff (2026-02-25)

Links:

* https://git.glasklar.is/sigsum/project/documentation/-/blob/main/archive/2026-02-10--meeting-minutes.md?ref_type=heads#request-for-input-on-ircmatrix-from-tta

(I glanced through the links, and went through the summary doc twice.)

The idea, if I understand correctly:

* The goal is to lock down file metadata, so that it will be harder to tamper
  with it in the future (and thus gain confidence that the files are authentic).
* Solution overview: use a transparency log.  Part of the admission criteria
  is that the file metadata (or so called "constraints") are valid, and other
  validators that follow the log also check that the constraints are valid?
* End-users are configured with trusted $parties, and will only trust a document
  to be from say 2015 if checksum matches and there are timestamps from 2015.

Some details...like having human-readable metadata with exactly one
serialization.  And that's what gets committed to a transparency log.

More details...constraints, scalability.  Around here I start getting lost.

I think what makes it a bit hard for me to get a good grip right now is:

* record, curator observer log, observer document, AT document, AT log, curator,
  observer, auditor, monitor, validators, different timestamps, ...; i.e.,
  terminology wise it's pretty heavy and I think some of it overlaps?  It's hard
  for me to draw the picture of what this system looks like.

An overview figure with conrete parties and interactions would help a lot.  And
to clearly state the information that's exchanged between these parties, and
what each party is expected to verify / falsify.

Part of why it's hard for me to get a good grip right now is maybe also that
there are many ideas of how this could be used/deployed, and instead of zooming
in on one or two options it's left a bit open and so it becomes scattered for
someone that doesn't know all details yet?

Some concrete starter questions that would help me understand better, and maybe
ask better follow up questions:

* How does an AT log work: what is the leaf and what is the admission criteria
  to get an entry added?  What does a submitter need to do to get a leaf added?
* What does a log monitor do? I.e., what can be detected / falsified by
  downloading the log and doing 'validation'?  Is there a difference between
  what can be verified 'now' vs if I run the monitor 'tomorrow'?
* Suppose I'm an end-user and I want to verify that a doc from three years ago
  in sigsum's git archive hasn't been tampered with.  What do I do next,
  assuming AT existed three years ago and someone helped us become part of AT?
  We can assume that i have "at-clitool" installed.  What does that tool do?
